# BIOMD0000000238: Overgaard2007_PDmodel_IL21

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000238.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000238.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
** PKPD model of interleukin-21 effects on thermoregulation in monkeys--application and evaluation of stochastic differential equations. **   
Overgaard RV, Holford N, Rytved KA, Madsen H. _Pharm Res._2007
Feb;24(2):298-309. [PUBMED](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/PUBMED),  
**Abstract:**   
PURPOSE: To describe the pharmacodynamic effects of recombinant human
interleukin-21 (IL-21) on core body temperature in cynomolgus monkeys using
basic mechanisms of heat regulation. A major effort was devoted to compare the
use of ordinary differential equations (ODEs) with stochastic differential
equations (SDEs) in pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic (PKPD) modelling. METHODS:
A temperature model was formulated including circadian rhythm, metabolism,
heat loss, and a thermoregulatory set-point. This model was formulated as a
mixed-effects model based on SDEs using NONMEM. RESULTS: The effects of IL-21
were on the set-point and the circadian rhythm of metabolism. The model was
able to describe a complex set of IL-21 induced phenomena, including 1)
disappearance of the circadian rhythm, 2) no effect after first dose, and 3)
high variability after second dose. SDEs provided a more realistic description
with improved simulation properties, and further changed the model into one
that could not be falsified by the autocorrelation function. CONCLUSIONS: The
IL-21 induced effects on thermoregulation in cynomolgus monkeys are explained
by a biologically plausible model. The quality of the model was improved by
the use of SDEs.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2010 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Nov√®re N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)


